---
title: Taking the Leap
subTitle: Transferring into the tech world
author: Chris Calleja
date: 2022-08-13T23:07:00.000Z
img: images/leap.jpeg
---
"That was great! We’ll be in touch by the end of the week,” said yet another casting director.  Another script, another audition, another failed attempt at booking an acting gig.  I lived the starving-artist lifestyle for pretty much all of my 20’s.  I did some cool jobs, met some cool people, even made it on TV a few times, but what I loved most about being an actor was telling people that I was an actor.  I detested the thought of a “desk job” in the “corporate world” and at the time, it all sounded the same. Data analyst, account manager, logistics, business development, or anything with the word “relations” in the title, I wanted no part of it.

Then came that fateful day on the basketball court.  When you go up for a rebound, and come down wrong on your heel wearing a pair of PF Flyers, sometimes your Achilles tendon snaps in two.  And sometimes when your Achilles tendon snaps in two while you have no health care and a full three figures in the bank account, it’s time to face reality and get a damn job.

I needed a job and I needed health insurance. I won’t bore you with the details, but within the next two weeks I had limped my way into an interview at Quicken Loans for a Client Relations Specialist (there’s that word “relations” again) and secured the job.  I couldn’t even tell you what a Client Relations Specialist was, or what I’d be doing on a day to day basis, but I didn’t care.

I quickly learned that Client Relations just meant “Customer Service”, and that I’d be taking phone calls from angry customers every single day for the foreseeable future.  But you know, something happened during that time. I learned that there’s something to be said for an honest day of hard work. There’s something to be said from implementing structure and discipline in your life, even if it’s not your favorite thing.  I dug deep and worked my ass off because I wanted to see how far I could advance in this new foreign land I found myself in 5-6 days per week. So I showed up with a smile, and took phone call after phone call. From there, I moved to the email team. If, by chance, you have ever submitted an email to [help@quickenloans.com](mailto:help@quickenloans.com), there is a very good chance that your reply came from me. I went on to shatter a company-wide production record that still stands to this day. I responded to 230 client emails in 8 hours. To put it into perspective, if you managed to crank out 100 emails in an 8 hour day, you crushed it. From there, I landed a position as a Trainer, which I loved because it gave me a chance to build on my client communication experience with public speaking.  I love public speaking.

But something was missing. I did alright for myself, but I couldn’t shake the feeling that this wasn’t where I was supposed to be. I got the job out of absolute necessity, not passion. Without the Achilles injury, I would have never chosen that path. So I decided to take a leap and carve my own path once and for all.  I have always had a keen interest in computer science and coding, but could never commit to a 4 year or even 2 year degree.  As a parent, I just couldn’t make it work. That was until I bumped into a friend who had just finished a coding boo camp through Grand Circus.  “You mean you learned 3 years worth of material in just 3 months?”  Within 2 weeks, I had gotten an approved 90 day leave of absence from work, and enrolled in a full stack Javascript boo camp where I would go on to learn so much that my brain could not even keep up at times. HTML, CSS, Javascript, Typescript, TDD, Express, Node, React, MongoDB. Words that I had never even heard of 6 months ago, I can now understand and implement.  I am being challenged more than ever, and loving every minute of it. The job hunt has officially begun, and the future is looking bright.